>> Brian Holt: Let's pop into Distroless.
So we are here in Distroless.
You may not wanna use Alpine.
And here is a blog post that is
very interesting of why you may not
wanna read Alpine.
I'm gonna give you the TDLR for this
person actually experienced this pain,
whereas I've only read about this pain
I've ever actually experienced it,
which is why I'm not telling anyone
to not use Alpine, by the way.
And I will say if you don't
use Kubernetes, there's,
as far as I know,
zero reason to not use Alpine.
There is some extreme,
and when I say extreme,
I mean extreme edge cases with Alpine
that will make it have some weird
issues with stuff like Kubernetes
when you're churning through tons and
tons and tons of containers at a rapid
rate over a long period of time.
You can run into some edge cases
where Alpine doesn't handle some
of that stuff as well,
it's something like DB and docs.
This arises from the fact that
almost every distribution of Linux,
has something called glibc in it.
And they replace it with, in Alpine
with this other thing called muscle,
it's what I hear people
call that out loud.
It's just a smaller version, if I'm
not mistaken, of the C-core library.
And generally it's battle-tested, it's
been run trillions of hours in production.
You and I generally do not have to care
about what the difference is there.
But if you go into the blog post,
you'll read this person
has hit some very strange
long-tail edge cases and
now swears off using Alpine forever.
So that is a reason, but probably the more
compelling reason of why you might
not wanna use Alpine,
it's not the only option anymore.
It used to be the only option,
it is now, no longer the only option.
So the one that we're gonna
talk about today is Distroless.
But there's Wolfi,
which I have no experience with,
just know that I've heard
people talk about it.
The Red Hat publishes their base image and
they have one called the micro image.
And I don't know why I'm not
talking about it, but but
there's one called Debian Slim as well.
I don't know how big Debian Slim is.
We could probably,
should we just find out?
We can just find out.
>> Brian Holt: I wonder if I can just
say from debian: bullseye-slim, sure.
>> Brian Holt: And run this I know we'll
call this my alpine, but name is hard.
>> Brian Holt: Already
looking a bit bigger.
That's wants to do all the APK stuff.
>> Speaker 2: It's just a docker pull.
>> Brian Holt: What's that?
>> Speaker 2: Docker pull to just
pull the image without building it.
>> Brian Holt: debian:bullseye-slim and
then I guess I can just look at it here.
Do I have it in here?
Debian, bullseye-slim, 75 megabytes.
Okay, so definitely very viable as
well in terms of how big it is.
It's on my computer from nine days ago,
so there you go.
So I'll go back and
add that to the nodes as well.
Very valuable and
I have used Slim many times,
myself as well, so
Slim is also very great.
We are gonna be talking specifically
today about Distroless,
because that has ended up becoming
a pretty popular project.
The first thing that I'm gonna say
is Distroless is not Distroless.
The name implies that
it's just pure Linux.
It's the pure manifestation, it's the
sneeze of Linux or Linus Torvalds, right?
It's none of those things.
It is still Debian, right?
At the end of the day,
they went into Debian, they hack and
slash everything out of it.
So, granted, it's not very
Debianly anymore, but it's still,
they built Debian and they took
a bunch of stuff out of it, right?
So, it is small, it is very, very,
very focused on running
something in production,
it is not useful for anything else,
I think that's fair to say.
But let's get wild.
Let's see what happens.
So I'm gonna just copy and paste this.
Node: 20, node-builder,
that shouldn't surprise you.
Working directory, package-locked, npm ci.
And then GCR,
that's Google Container Registry.
And we're gonna pull Distroless nodejs20.
We're gonna copy all of
our stuff over from app.
Notice that we don't have to do any of the
stuff of adding a user or telling them,
this is so locked down, you can't run
it as node, as far as I know., right?
It's literally just hyper-focused on that.
We were talking about entry point earlier.
You can't do anything besides
run node from this, right?
You can't connect to it.
You can't exec stuff, anything like that.
It has its entry point as, index.js and
that's what you're gonna use.
So let's go ahead and try and run that.
We'll call this distroless.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then now we will try and
run it
>> Brian Holt: Make
sure that we are still working.
Still running our node app, no problem.
All the logins working and
let's see more come distroless,
137 megabytes, so it's not smaller
than what we were doing before.
But at this point, just go read a bunch
of blog posts of why I would choose
this one over the other one.
I'll just say that
distroless has gotten very,
very popular which is why
we're now talking about it.
It is Debian-derived,
we talked about that.
Because you are now on Debian and
not on Alpine,
you are back into glibc land
as opposed to muscle land.
So you have eliminated that extremely
rare use case that you were very likely
not to hit anyway.
And I guess at this point, if you have
strong opinions of why you need to
use Alpine over distress or vice-versa,
you've probably surpassed my
knowledge on this cuz to me,
they're essentially the same.
>> Brian Holt: For my practical
applied use cases, it is the same.
So by the way, you could totally
go try and do this with Wolfi,
with Red Hat, with Slim.
Honestly, Slim's a really good choice.
It's nice in the fact that you're kind
of staying all within Debian, and
Slim is maintained by
the Debian team itself.
I mean, do you wanna trust
the Alpine open-source project?
Do you wanna trust
the Debian organization?
Or do you wanna trust Google?
The answer is really any of them are fine,
if you're asking me.
But that's really kind of one of the
questions you're going to come down to.